=head1 NAME

Convos::Manual::Environment - Environment variables for Convos

=head1 SYNOPSIS

You can change the behavior of L<Convos> by setting environment variables:

  $ CONVOS_REDIS_URL=localhost/12 ./script/convos

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

Convos can be configured with the following environment variables:

=head2 CONVOS_ARCHIVE_DIR

Set this variable to a custom directory where Convos can store the IRC
logs.

=head2 CONVOS_DEBUG

Set CONVOS_DEBUG to a true value for extra debug output to STDERR.

=head2 CONVOS_DISABLE_AUTO_EMBED

Set CONVOS_DISABLE_AUTO_EMBED to a true value to disable links from expanding
into images, movies or other dynamic content.

=head2 CONVOS_ORGANIZATION_NAME

Set this to customize the organization name on the landing page, in the title
tag and other various sites. The default is L<Nordaaker|http://nordaaker.com/>.

=head2 CONVOS_REDIS_URL

This is the URL to the Redis backend, and should follow this format:

  redis://x:password@server:port/database_index
  redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1 # suggested value

Convos will use C<REDISCLOUD_URL>, C<REDISTOGO_URL>,
C<DOTCLOUD_DATA_REDIS_URL> or default to "redis://127.0.0.1:6379/1" unless
C<CONVOS_REDIS_URL> is not set.

It is also possible to set C<CONVOS_REDIS_INDEX=2> to use the
database index 2, instead of the default. This is useful when
C<REDISTOGO_URL> or C<DOTCLOUD_DATA_REDIS_URL> does not contain
the datbase index.

=head2 CONVOS_INVITE_CODE

If set must be appended to register url. Example:

  http://your.convos.by/register/some-secret-invite-code

=head2 CONVOS_SECURE_COOKIES

Set CONVOS_SECURE_COOKIES to true in order to set the secure flag
on all session cookies.  Requires HTTPS.

=head2 MOJO_CONFIG

Path to a config file which will be sourced when L<Convos> starts. The file
need to be valid Perl. Example:

  # You can set environment variables inside the file:
  $ENV{CONVOS_SECURE_COOKIES} = 1;
  $ENV{MOJO_LISTEN} = "http://*:8080,https://*:8443";

  # Do not forget this line at the end
  {};

=head2 MOJO_IRC_DEBUG

Set MOJO_IRC_DEBUG for extra IRC debug output to STDERR.

=head2 MOJO_LISTEN

List of one or more locations to listen on. This also works for
L<hypnotoad|Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad>. Example:

  MOJO_LISTEN="http://*:8080,https://*:8443"

L<Mojo::Server::Daemon/listen>.

=head2 MOJO_REVERSE_PROXY

Set this to a true value if you're using L<hypnotoad|Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad>
behind a reverse proxy, such as nginx.

=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Henning Thorsen - C<jhthorsen@cpan.org>

Marcus Ramberg - C<marcus@nordaaker.com>

=cut
