
=head1 NAME

Convos::Manual::Running - How to start Convos

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Convos> can run in different modes, but we suggest running with a separate
backend, since it allows you to restart the frontend without disconnecting
from the IRC servers.

NOTE! If you run convos from a checked out git repo, wou need to run the
commands with C<./vendor/bin/carton exec> infront of the commands. Example:

  # This...
  $ convos frontend start
  $ convos daemon

  # becomes...
  $ ./vendor/bin/carton exec ./script/convos frontend start
  $ ./vendor/bin/carton exec ./script/convos daemon

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<Convos::Manual::Environment>

=item * L<Convos::Manual::HttpHeaders>

=back

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $ ./script/convos
  $ ./script/convos [command] [options]

=head1 MODES

=head2 Single process mode

Running Convos in single process mode is the simplest way to get started.
In this mode, it will run the backend (The process that connects to the IRC
servers) embedded. This might even be required, if you want to run Convos
on a service similar to Heroku. (NOTE: Convos is not supported on Heroku)

To start Convos, simply start it with the command "daemon". Below, we have
also supplied the listen parameter which specifies which port to accept
incoming HTTP connections on.

  $ convos daemon --listen http://*:8080

For more details run "help daemon" or have a look at
L<http://mojolicio.us/perldoc/Mojo/Server/Daemon>.

  $ convos help daemon

=head2 Separate backend

Starting up the backend separately is a big win, since it allows you to
upgrade and restart the frontend without tearing down the connections to the
IRC servers. There are two ways to start the backend, either in foreground
or fork to background:

  # Start in foreground
  $ convos backend -f

  # Fork to background
  $ convos backend start

After you have forked to background, you can investigate the status of
the process, stop or restart it:

  $ convos backend status
  $ convos backend stop
  $ convos backend restart

=head2 Hypnotoad

L<Hypnotoad|http://mojolicio.us/perldoc/Mojo/Server/Hypnotoad> is a full
featured, UNIX optimized, preforking non-blocking webserver. Using Hypnotoad
is what we suggest, since it can handle a lot more requests, than what
L</Single process mode> can offer. Starting with Hypnotoad can be done with
the following command:

  $ convos frontend start

It is possible to L<hot reload|http://mojolicio.us/perldoc/Mojo/Server/Hypnotoad#USR2>
the server, without losing any HTTP connections:

  $ convos frontend reload

Like the L<backend|/Separate backend>, you can also investigate the status of
the process, stop or restart it:

  $ convos frontend status
  $ convos frontend stop
  $ convos frontend restart

We strongly suggest starting with L<MOJO_CONFIG|Convos::Manual::Environment/MOJO_CONFIG>
set, so you can change the environment during L<hot reload|Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad/DESCRIPTION>.
This can also be set in L</Init script> environment.

  $ MOJO_CONFIG=/path/to/config.pl convos frontend start

L</Hypnotoad> mode require the backend to be started as a separate process.

=head2 Init script

It's possible to generate init scripts for L<Convos> now. To do that, you can
run these commands:

  for i in frontend backend; do
    convos $i get_init_file > /etc/init.d/convos-$i
    chmod +x /etc/init.d/convos-$i
    update-rc.d convos-$i defaults
  done

The backend and frontend can be supplied with environment variables from
C</etc/default/convos>. Example:

  MOJO_CONFIG=/path/to/convos.conf
  RUN_AS_USER=convos
  RUN_AS_GROUP=nobody

  CONVOS_FRONTEND_PID_FILE=/var/run/convos-frontend.log
  CONVOS_FRONTEND_LOGFILE=/var/log/convos/frontend.log

  CONVOS_BACKEND_PID_FILE=/var/run/convos-backend.pid
  CONVOS_BACKEND_LOGFILE=/var/log/convos/backend.log

  CONVOS_REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6397/1

Note: L<Hypnotoad> only reads these environment variables on start/restart,
and not on reload.
 
=head1 AUTHOR

Jan Henning Thorsen - C<jhthorsen@cpan.org>

=cut
