---
layout: post
title: Convos version 0.99_21 is out
---

Version [0.99_21](https://github.com/Nordaaker/convos/tree/stable) is fresh
from the bakery! Run the
[install](/doc/getting-started.html#quick-start-guide) command to get the
latest version.

### Who's in the current dialog?

Getting the participant list did not work when joining a dialog. It also
failed when reconnecting to a server. Both of these issues are now fixed.

The participant list will also reload when the websocket connection is
restarted.

Version 0.99_16 also add special styling to indicate if a user in a channel is
currently active or not: A user who have left the channel will be rendered
with "strike through" to indicate that the user is no longer present in the
dialog.

### Convos behind a reverse proxy

Convos has always worked behind a
[reverse proxy](/doc/faq.html#can-convos-run-behind-behind-my-favorite-web-server),
but there was a bug which did not allow it to be mounted under a custom base
path.

This bug was fixed in the beginning of December, making both `location` with and
without a path working:

    # Always worked
    location / { ... }

    # Now fixed
    location /whatever/convos { ... }

### Organization URL

You can now change the
[organization url](/doc/config.html#convosorganizationurl) to point to your
own website.

### On connect commands

Version 0.99_17 added support for defining and editing "on connect commands".
This allows commands such as `/msg NickServ identify supersecretpassword` to be
run automatically when you connect to an IRC server.

### Closing dialogs

You can now close dialogs directly from the dialog list, instead of clicking
on the dialog first.

### More?

Want more details? Check out the
[Changelog](https://github.com/Nordaaker/convos/blob/master/Changes), or come
and [talk to us](/doc#get-in-touch).
